docs: add documentation on ROCm devices (#10915)
open-mpi/ompi: docs/networking/rocm.rst

ROCm
====

> 

Reviewer: You might want to have a sentence or three defining what ROCm is.  Feel free to link out to web sites that provide definitions (e.g., AMD-maintained sites).  You might want to pick web sites that will assumedly be long-lived (and not disappear if a product SKU changes or somesuch).

> How do I build Open MPI with ROCm-aware support?

Reviewer: Don't feel like this has to be question-answer style like the CUDA help.  Indeed, it would be better if it were more of a declarative style, like the rest of the docs.

I think the CUDA file is largely based on [its corresponding FAQ section](https://www.open-mpi.org/faq/?category=buildcuda), and hasn't (yet) been converted over to a more declarative style.

E.g., you could just name this section "Building Open MPI with ROCm-aware support".

The same goes for the other sections in this page.

------------------------------------------------

ROCm-aware support means that the MPI library can send and receive GPU

> buffers directly. As of today, ROCm support is available through

Reviewer: Do you need to differentiate this text (and possibly the CUDA text?) that ROCm is specific to AMD hardware, and CUDA is specific to NVIDIA hardware?  (or whatever CUDA's restrictions are)

UCX. While other communication transports might work as well, UCX is
the only transport formally supported in Open MPI for ROCm devices in

> the current version.

Reviewer: You can use `|ompi_ver|` to list Open MPI's full version (the `|foo|` notation indicates a macro; we defined the `ompi_ver` macro to be something like "v5.0.0" or "v5.0.1" or the like.  You can also use `|ompi_series|` for values like "v5.0.x" or "v4.1.x", or whatever is appropriate on this branch.

Since UCX will be providing the ROCm support, it is important to
ensure that UCX itself is built with ROCm support.

> To see if your ucx was built with ROCm support run the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To see if your UCX was built with ROCm support, run the following
```

command:

.. code-block:: sh

 # Check if ucx was built with ROCm support
 shell$ ucx_info -v

 # configured with: --with-rocm=/opt/rocm --without-knem --without-cuda

> If you need to build ucx yourself to include ROCm support, please see
> the UCX documentation for `building ucx with Open MPI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to build UCX yourself to include ROCm support, please see
the UCX documentation for `building UCX with Open MPI:
```

<https://openucx.readthedocs.io/en/master/running.html#openmpi-with-ucx>`_

It should look something like:

.. code-block:: sh

  # Configure UCX with ROCm support
  shell$ ./configure --prefix=/path/to/ucx-rocm-install \
                     --with-rocm=/opt/rocm --without-knem

  # Configure Open MPI with UCX and ROCm support
  shell$ ./configure --with-rocm=/opt/rocm    \
         --with-ucx=/path/to/ucx-rocm-install \
	  <other configure params>

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

How do I verify that Open MPI has been built with ROCm support?
---------------------------------------------------------------

> Verify that Open MPI has been built with rocm using ``ompi_info``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that Open MPI has been built with ROCm using the :ref:`ompi_info(1) <man1-ompi_info>` command:
```

.. code-block:: sh

   # Use ompi_info to verify ROCm support in Open MPI
   shell$ ./ompi_info |grep "MPI extensions"
          MPI extensions: affinity, cuda, ftmpi, rocm

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

How do I use ROCm-aware UCX for Open MPI?
-----------------------------------------

If UCX and Open MPI have been configured with ROCm support, specifying

> the ucx pml component is sufficient to take advantage of the ROCm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the UCX PML component is sufficient to take advantage of the ROCm
```

support in the libraries. For example, running the ``osu_latency``
from the `OSU benchmarks
<https://mvapich.cse.ohio-state.edu/benchmarks>`_ with ROCm buffers

> using Open MPI and UCX ROCm support,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using Open MPI and UCX ROCm support something like this:
```

.. code-block::

   shell$ mpirun -n 2 --mca pml ucx \
           ./osu_latency -d rocm D D

Note: some additional configure flags are required to compile the OSU

> benchmark with ROCm buffers. Please refer to `UCX ROCm instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
benchmark with ROCm buffers. Please refer to the `UCX ROCm instructions
```

<https://github.com/openucx/ucx/wiki/Build-and-run-ROCM-UCX-OpenMPI>`_
for details.

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

Can I tell at compile time or runtime whether I have ROCm-aware support?
------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Open MPI starting from v5.0 includes a function
> ``MPIX_Query_rocm_support`` to check the availability of ROCm support

Reviewer: Is there an `MPIX_Query_rocm_support` man page that can be linked to here?

```suggestion
Starting with Open MPI v5.0.0, the function
``MPIX_Query_rocm_support`` is available as an extension to check the availability of ROCm support
```

in the library. To access the function, you need to include
``mpi-ext.h``. Note that ``mpi-ext.h`` is specific to Open MPI.

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

What collective component should I use for ROCm support in collective operations

> ----------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: I know this is kinda stupid, but Sphinx requires that the underlying be at least as long as the text title above it.

The `UCC <https://github.com/openucx/ucc>`_ based collective component
in Open MPI can be configured and compiled to include ROCm support.

An example for configure UCC and Open MPI with ROCm is shown below:

.. code-block::

>    #Configure and compile ucc with ROCm support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # Configure and compile UCC with ROCm support
```

   shell$ cd ucc
   shell$ ./configure --with-rocm=/opt/rocm --with-ucx=/path/to/ucx-rocm-install \
                      --prefix=/path/to/ucc-rocm-install
   shell$ make -j && make install

>    #Configure and compile Open MPI with UCX, UCC and ROCm support

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # Configure and compile Open MPI with UCX, UCC, and ROCm support
```

   shell$ cd ompi
   shell$ ./configure --with-rocm=/opt/rocm --with-ucx=/path/to/ucx-rocm-install \
                      --with-ucc=/path/to/ucc-rocm-install --

   

> To use the ucc component in an applicatin requires setting some additional parameters, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the UCC component in an application requires setting some additional parameters:
```

.. code-block::

   shell$ mpirun --mca pml ucx --mca osc ucx --mca coll_ucc_enable 1 \

>                  --mca coll_ucc_priority 100 -np 64 ./my_executable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                 --mca coll_ucc_priority 100 -np 64 ./my_mpi_app
```

> ROCm

Reviewer: Did you include this file in `docs/networking/index.rst`?

Reviewer: The last CI run failed because this file is present in the tree, but not included anywhere (e.g., in `docs/networking/index.rst`).

You might want to look at https://docs.open-mpi.org/en/v5.0.x/developers/sphinx.html#installing-sphinx so that you can build the docs locally and not have to have errors like this only turn up via CI.  😄

ROCm
====

ROCm is the name of the software stack used by AMD GPUs. It includes
the ROCm Runtime (ROCr), the HIP programming model, and numerous
numerical and machine learning libraries tuned for the AMD Instinct

> line accelerators. More information can be found at the following

Reviewer 2: line of accelerators?
